Creating a product backlog.
Let's look at the product backlog and also look at the contributions a
business analyst can do in creating a product backlog.
A product backlog is a prioritized list of all things that
need to be completed within the project,
all things,
and it is the single source of requirements for any
changes to be made to the product.
So, what's in a backlog?
Though most items in a backlog will be items that
are software development tasks,
they really can be anything whatsoever that is required to deliver
the product for this Agile or leading project.
User stories and features.
By far the main way for a team to specify features of an Agile
product backlog is in the form of user stories,
which are short,
simple descriptions of the desired functionality told from
the perspective of the user or customer.
Bugs.
Because there's really no difference between a bug and a new feature,
each describe something different that the user wants,
bugs are also put on the product backlog.
Research.
There could be many research activities that are required to
understand and/or determine the product.
For example,
a research item may be determining the best cloud
platform and how to configure it.
The product owner was not likely the source of this backlog item,
but instead the development team.
The product backlog will be mostly user‑oriented
features written as user stories, but also Agile dev team driven as well.
Analysis items.
It may be that a feature really needs more analysis in
order to create quality user stories,
or even if some feature is worthy of being part of
the backlog in the first place.
So there is nothing wrong with having analysis items.
An example of analysis related to knowledge acquisition could
be a backlog item about researching various JavaScript
libraries for the user experience, such as Angular React or Vue.js.
Environmental items.
There could be items that are required, such as software licenses,
computers, office space, or who knows.
An example would be upgrade all developers' workstations to Windows 10.
All this is still part of the overall backlog items that must
be in place for the success of the project.
There's no point in having another list that would not
be visible to the product owner.
The product owner should know everything that's required to get the job done.
Technical debt, and I know we have a lot of that.
These are items that have already been coded and implemented,
but need shoring up and improving to ensure the entire
system can continue to run smoothly.
You can certainly have other items in your product
backlog that I have not mentioned.
Typically, though,
you will most likely be working on and focused on user stories.
In the most basic terms, a user story is a definition of a requirement.
User stories contain just enough information so that the product
owners understand its value and developers can produce a reasonable
estimate of the effort to implement it.
Remember, the estimates help the product owner prioritize the backlog.
Without an estimate, you really can't determine value to the business.
Users stories, or just stories, are the Agile equivalent to system requirements.
The use of the term, user stories, is very common and widespread,
regardless of the development methodology,
which is really great.
Stories are the primary construct for moving the user's requirements
from an idea on the backlog to implementation.
The BA's role is heavy upfront during the creation
and normalization of the backlog, so let's talk about that.
A critical and essential role of the business analyst is to help
normalize the backlog with the product owner.
Here is our original backlog on the left with a myriad of items,
and what we want to do is to normalize them,
that is, rewrite all these items into user stories.
It is the common language that is understood by both business users,
as well as technical developers.
Therefore, it is your job to do it right,
capture it correctly so the product owner agrees,
and the Agile dev team understands what they have to do to implement.
In addition, the product owner will prioritize them,
but they will always have tons of questions,
pros and cons,
and it is your job to help them figure out what may be
the best priority for each of them.
And lastly,
you will also help and guide the product owner in determining the value of each,
a rough and crude estimate of each, and other key information.
You will need to work and coordinate with the technical members of the Agile
team to arrive at estimates in a reasonable amount of time.
I believe all requirements, whether functional,
bugs, research, technical debt, or whatever,
can all be written in a user story format, so strive for that.